Basic social communication; Affiliation; Perspective taking; Peer relationships) and Restricted and repetitive behaviors (Repetitive motor behavior; Sensory interests; Insistence on sameness; Sensory sensitivities; Restricted interests)

The following questions have the following choices and point values (in parenthesis): Very Often (1), Often (2), Sometimes (3), Rarely (4), Never (5), Unknown (0)

Basic Social Communication (red)

1. Start interactions with others without prompting?

2. Make expected eye contact? (not too brief, too intense, or looking past people)

3. Use gestures to communicate? (ex. wave, point, nod, shake head)

4. Communicate clearly so that other people know how they feel?

5. Share enjoyment about interests or activities with other people?

6. Respond appropriately when others approach them? (ex. nodding, saying something back)

7. Have a back and forth conversation about another person’s interests and activities, not just their own?



Affiliation (yellow-orange)

8. Prefer to be with family or friends rather than alone?

9. Try to be physically and emotionally-connected to family and friends?

10. Show that relationships are important to them?



Perspective Taking (cyan)

11. Offer comfort to others when they are upset or sick?

12. Read social cues? (ex. facial expressions, gestures, body language)

13. Understand that expected behavior varies by social situation? (ex. being quieter in the library than at a party)

14. Seem to understand what others are thinking or feeling?



Peer Relationships (violet)

15. Engage in back and forth play with same-age peers? (ex. playing tag or cops-and-robbers by exchanging roles and allowing others to win OR in adolescents/adults playing turn-taking games or activities that require reciprocal give-and-take)

16. Seek out playful interactions, playmates, or friendships?

17. Engage with two or more close friends?



The following questions have the following choices and point values (in parenthesis): Very Often (5), Often (4), Sometimes (3), Rarely (2), Never (1), Unknown (0).

Repetitive Motor Behaviors (lime green)

18. Flap or move their hands in an unusual way? (ex. claps or flaps their hands or flicks their fingers when they are excited)

19. Repetitively jump, rock their body, spin in circles, or do other whole-body motions?

20. Repeat sounds, words, or lines from videos?

21. Repetitively play with objects or repeat actions without a purpose? (ex. lining up toys, spinning wheels, opening and closing doors, turning lights on and off, etc.)



Sensory Interests (blue)

22. Prefer to engage with specific parts of objects rather than the whole object?* (ex. parts of a toy, small pieces of a game, or parts of electrical equipment)

23. Appear fascinated by sensory experiences? (ex. staring at lights, fans, running water, symmetrical patterns, street signs, falling or dangling objects, textures, smells, etc.)

24. Become preoccupied with visual patterns or sounds?* (ex. fascination with the way something looks or moves, excessive focus on certain sounds or videos)



Insistence on Sameness (orange)

25. Insist on keeping a consistent daily schedule? (ex. gets upset with changes in the routine)

26. Have difficulty transitioning from one activity to another?

27. Want to follow strict rules, rituals, or sequences? (ex. taking the same route to a destination, touching things in a certain sequence, eating foods in a certain order, playing games a certain way, or performing activities until they are “just right”)

28. Have trouble changing their mind and being flexible?



Sensory Sensitivities (green)

29. Appear overly sensitive to loud noises?

30. Get upset in crowded or busy places?

31. Dislike certain lights, sounds, textures, foods, or smells?



Restricted Interests (Purple)

32. Think or talk about the same topic over and over?

33. Seem overly fixated on one interest or activity?

34. Spend too much time on a game or subject that is not interesting to others?

35. Seem too focused on an interest that is highly specific or narrow in scope?



Other (Gray)

36. Prefer to make lists, memorize facts, or learn about technical subjects?

37. Stand too close or show unexpected body language when interacting with others? (ex. a facial expression that doesn’t match what the person is saying or having their body turned away during conversation)

38. Take things too literally? (ex. not understanding when people are sarcastic, joking, or using figures of speech such as “it’s raining cats and dogs” OR “a leopard can’t change his spots”)

39. Speak with an unusual volume, tone, rhythm, or rate of speech?

